scripts/README.md, before:

# ROS Development environment.
Below are the instructions to setup ROS development environment

## Setup

1. Update /etc/hosts

```
127.0.0.1       kafka
127.0.0.1       minio
```
2. Create require directories for minio.
```
mkdir -p /usr/share/minio/{minio-conf,minio-data}
```

3. Clone ros-backend repository and start necessary services in container.
```
# git clone https://github.com/RedHatInsights/ros-backend.git
# cd scripts
# docker login quay.io
# . .env-minio
# docker-compose up
```

4) Wait for insights-inventory container to get started and after that follow the below steps to start inventory API server.
```
# docker exec -it <insights-inventory-container-id> bash
# python run_gunicorn.py
```

## Usage

### Run ros-backend flask application.

```
pipenv install --dev
FLASK_APP=ros/app.py flask run
```

### Sending report to ingress/kafka topic(platform.upload.advisor) and registering system in host inventory. 
```
make insights-upload-data
```

### Sending report(pcp metrics data) to ingress/kafka topic(platform.upload.resource-optimization). 
```
make ros-upload-data
```

## Useful commands.

1. Monitor resource-optimization kafka topic
```
docker-compose exec kafka kafka-console-consumer --topic=platform.upload.resource-optimization --bootstrap-server=localhost:29092

```

Commit message:

Separate processor from web api in the codebase (#25)

scripts/README.md, after:

# ROS Development environment.
Below are the instructions to setup ROS development environment

## Setup

1. If you want to access the containers from host machine, update /etc/hosts

```
127.0.0.1       kafka
127.0.0.1       minio
```

3. Clone ros-backend repository.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/RedHatInsights/ros-backend.git
cd scripts
docker login quay.io
```

4. Start dependency containers (insight-sinventory-web has dependency on all platform containers, so they can be started with a single command).
The db-ros container just provides a PostgreSQL database for the ROS application
```bash
docker-compose up --build insights-inventory-web db-ros
```

## Usage
Following commands are expected to be run from the repository root (not within the *scripts* directory).
### Enter the pipenv environment
```bash
pipenv install --dev 
pipenv shell
```
### Run ros-api application
```
python -m ros.api.main
```

### Run the ros-processor application
```bash
python -m ros.processor.main
```

### Sending report to ingress/kafka topic(platform.upload.advisor) and registering system in host inventory. 
```
make insights-upload-data
```

### Sending report(pcp metrics data) to ingress/kafka topic(platform.upload.resource-optimization). 
```
make ros-upload-data
```

## Useful commands.

1. Monitor resource-optimization kafka topic
```
docker-compose exec kafka kafka-console-consumer --topic=platform.upload.resource-optimization --bootstrap-server=localhost:29092

```
